Market Analysis 

	Target market:	Over the past decade social media has established a substantial 
  consumer market based around interacting and connecting with their peers online. 
  Young adults and college students make a up a significant portion of this market 
  with 82% of young adults (ages18-24) using some form of social media. That is over 
  25 million Americans. At lest 70% of these users use social media every single day.1 
  Electronic maps have a similar magnitude of users with just over 100 million active 
  monthly users using either Google or Apple maps and these numbers grow every year 
  with fewer people buying stand alone GPS systems and more accessing maps via their 
  computers or mobile devices.2 At Knome we plan to target the overlap between these 
  markets. Our target demographic is the young, social media using, electronic map 
  dependent American.
	
	Profile of Competitors:
	The social media and electronic maps industries are dominated by many well established 
  companies like Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat, etc. However their competing services are 
  just a branch of the lager company. Facebook events offers planned, non-spontaneous events 
  that reach large groups of people. 650 million people use Facebook events world-wide each 
  month and 41% of American Facebook users use the service each month.3 Snapchat events are 
  less frequent but have high visibility being posted on the front page of the app when you 
  log in. Knome's most closely related competitor is Waze, an electronic maps service. Waze 
  offers a traditional electronic maps service powered by google maps as well as user 
  submitted street events like accidents, red light cameras, and traffic information. 7% of 
  mobile users use Waze. The vast majority of Waze’s user base is over the age of 30 (79%).4
	
	Competitive Advantage:
	Knome differs from its completion primarily in: The type of information presented to the 
  user, ease of use, and target demographic. Unlike Waze or other electronic maps, Knome’s  
  primary service is not navigation. Knome will give users information about events surrounding 
  them. These events are not transportation specific like Waze and are plotted on an electronic 
  map unlike Snapchat. Using a minimalist design Knome will present this information in a clear 
  and coherent manner so the user can easily understand what events are happening around them. 
  Knome’s target demographic is young adults (ages 18-24). By focusing on this group Knome will 
  capture the younger audience that Waze does not with their focus on middle aged adults(30 and over). 
  Knome will be free giving access to all regardless of economic status. 

1 Duggan, M. (2015). The Demographics of Social Media Users. http://www.pewinternet.org/2015/08/19/the-demographics-of-social-media-users.
2 "Topic: Navigation Devices & Usage." www.statista.com.
3 "Facebook Events." Facebook Events. https://events.fb.com/#why-facebook-events
4 “Waze - GPS.” SurveyMonkey. https://www.surveymonkey.com/intelligence/#app-demographics-age
